"The decision has been difficult for me because the electorate of the Saarland had given me their confidence, with more than 40% of the votes and that is not a responsibility that can be happily left, but I believe that we are experiencing the most difficult political moment in history. recent of Germany and in moments like this is not worth saying what should be done, but it is necessary to take responsibility and get down to work ». This is how Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer explained her step forward and her decision to stand as candidate for the presidency of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) with the support of Angela Merkel.
The directive of the CDU had expressly asked Merkel to solve the issue of succession as soon as possible and the chancellor has attended the initiative of Kramp-Karrenbauer, which had discreetly proposed. "He has shown in his region how much he can do for the party, we have known each other for a long time and I think he is very capable, that is why he has my support", he said about the candidate who will be voted next Monday, "when I presented his appointment to the board, the truth is that he was received with great support ».
"The idea of ​​assuming the general secretariat was hers," Merkel clarified, "which struck me quite a lot because it is not normal for a successful prime minister who has recently won an executive position to assume an executive position. charge within the party ». Faced with other possible candidates, who would have displaced the CDU further to the right, trying to placate the rise of the populist and anti-European party Alternative for Germany (AfD), Kramp-Karrenbauer has been one of the great defenders within the political party of open doors to refugees that Merkel led in 2015, in the face of the humanitarian tragedy that was experienced in Hungary, and its designation is interpreted as a sign of continuity. That does not mean, however, that it does not reach the direction of the CDU decided to leave its own mark. "I hope to promote a process of programmatic renewal that takes into account both the liberal roots and the conservative roots of the party," said Kramp-Karrenbauer herself in her first appearance as appointed general secretary, to whom she has come dressed in colors that have been vetoed. Merkel's hackneyed cloakroom and with which she implies that her appointment will bring novelties.
In El Saar governs since 2011 at the head of a tripartite with the Greens and the Liberal Party, the so-called Jamaica Coalition that Merkel tried as a first choice for the federal government and that failed after several weeks of negotiations, which marks it as a capable policy to build those bridges more effectively. "To arrive at the next elections with a result that allows us to form a government will be the first of my objectives", confirmed Kramp-Karrenbauer during his presentation.
To whom the pronunciation of his name supposes an irresolvable problem, he must alleviate that in the party everybody refers to her in the abbreviated form «AKK». She is 55 years old, Catholic and trained in Political Science. He has numerous personal and family connections with France and has raised controversy when he has compared, for example, homosexuality with incest or polygamy. In fact, until 48 hours before the announcement was expected the appointment of a much more discreet and less controversial candidate as Peter Tauber, the secretary general of the CDU and close associate of Merkel who nevertheless yesterday made public his intention to leave office. He recently had to undergo an operation and the "medical reasons" that are so often used in this case would have been a good and presentable explanation for his decision, but he avoided mentioning them and left behind a trail of discontent.
All this happens in the CDU while the social democratic bases (SPD) are voting by postal mail on the grand coalition agreement to which their directive has reached with Merkel. The result will be made public on February 24 and, if it is negative, it would force the convocation of new elections to which Merkel would very likely no longer appear as a candidate. If the grand coalition comes to a successful conclusion, at the congress that the CDU will hold on February 26, Merkel hopes to announce the names of the next ministers of his cabinet, among which are expected young prominent personalities such as Jens Spahn or Julia Klöckners, who throughout the term will also gain profile and who could opt later, in competition with Kramp-Karrenbauer, to the candidacy for the Chancellery of Berlin.
Do you want abc.es to keep you informed at all times?