advertising

By
Jason Horowitz

February 17, 2018

Read in English
ROME - Pope Francis reactivated a consultative commission on sexual abuse on Saturday, following criticism of the way he handled the scandal of a Chilean bishop who was accused by victims of covering up sexual abuse, which caused the biggest crisis in his life. pontificate.
This is the latest in a series of measures taken by the Vatican to counter criticism that combating ecclesiastical sexual abuse is not a priority for Francisco's papacy.
The Cardinal of Boston, Sean O'Malley, was again appointed as the leader of the Pontifical Commission for the Protection of Minors, originally created in 2014. According to a Vatican statement, the group will include some victims who have been sexually abused. part of members of the ecclesiastical community.
These, according to the Vatican, preferred not to publicly reveal their stories and experiences.
The commission's initial three-year term expired in December. Its closure coincided with criticism of the pontiff's commitment to address the problems of sexual abuse in the church. The group plans to begin its work again in April with meetings to hear the testimonies of victims.
The Vatican authorities said that the goal of the commission "and its greatest challenge" was still to establish "prevention and protection against abuse in the life and action of local churches."
The announcement of the commission came the same day the researcher more experienced Vatican sex crimes, the Archbishop of Malta, Charles Scicluna, was in New York to hear the testimony of Juan Carlos Cruz, who claims to have been sexually abused when He was a teenager in Chile by the priest Fernando Karadima and who also assures that Bishop Juan Barros witnessed the abuses.
During his visit to Chile in January, the pope initially defended Barros as a victim of "slander," saying that the Vatican had not received any concrete evidence against the bishop.
"The day they bring me a test against Bishop Barros, I'll talk there," said Francisco on that occasion. "There is not a single test against, everything is slander." That declaration caused great indignation in Chile, and Francisco, in the midst of intense pressure, appointed Scicluna to initiate an investigation.
It was later learned that the pope had personally received an eight-page letter in 2015 that contained a testimony against the bishop, and that O'Malley had delivered it to him.
Eight members of the commission were ratified and there are nine members appointed for the first time. The experts, which include lay academics and psychologists, as well as priests and nuns, come from several countries, such as Brazil, Ethiopia, India and Tonga. Ten of them are not ecclesiastics and eight are women.
sexual abuse, Chile, Juan Barros, Pope Francisco
The New York Times Newsletter in Spanish includes stories that inspire, striking photographs and essential chronicles.
Please, check that you are not a robot by clicking on the box.
The email is not valid
Select the newsletters you wish to subscribe to.
See all The New York Times newsletters.
advertising