The 60 passengers and six crew members - two pilots, two flight attendants and two members of the security staff - have been killed.
A passenger plane with 66 occupants on board crashes in a mountainous area of ​​Irn
The wreckage of the plane of the company Aseman injured on Sunday with 66 people on board was found Monday. In the search of the apparatus they have participated from helicopters to climbers in the mountainous area of ​​the center of Irn where the apparatus crashed.
The remains of the ATR 72 of French, Italian and Canadian manufacture have been found near the city of Dengezlu, in the province of Isfahn, as reported by the deputy governor of the neighboring province of Kohkilouye-Boyer, Ahmad Jafar Gohargani, in statements collected by the IRNA news agency. PUBLICIDADinRead invented by Teads
The bad meteorological conditions, together with the difficult orography of the Zagros mountain range, prevented the rescue teams from finding the plane yesterday.
The search operations resumed today at 6.00 in the morning (2.30 GMT), after being suspended during the night, and they involved about 25 rescue teams and a hundred climbers.
The executive director of the red crescent of Isfahan province, Mohsen Momen, quoted by the ISNA agency, has indicated that sniffer dogs have also been deployed in the area.
The plane, an ATR-72 more than twenty years old, covered the Tehern-Yasuy domestic route and disappeared from the radar about 50 minutes after taking off.
The 60 passengers and six crew members - two pilots, two flight attendants and two members of the security staff - have been reported as deceased even though the search continues.
"We are faced with a complete enigma, we do not know anything about why it has crashed," said Transport Minister Abbas Akhoundi, according to the Tasnim news agency.
The aircraft manufacturer company, ATR, has expressed its condolences on Monday and the head of Civil Aviation of Irn, Reza Jafarzad, has announced that a delegation of seven French members will arrive in Tehern in the next hours to investigate the accident.
It is important to renew the fleets. I flew in national lines in Irn and the devices were 30 years old, they were a bit obsolete.

Log in to participate

It is important to renew the fleets. I flew in national lines in Irn and the devices were 30 years old, they were a bit obsolete.
 ELMUNDO.es Avenida de San Luis 25 - 28033 MADRID One website Editorial Unit
Follow us