Oxfam grows dwarves. That is why she spares no efforts so that her damaged image after the scandal of sexual abuse in Haiti will once again look immaculate. In a desperate attempt to rescue the thousands of partners that this week have retired from the British economy, and with funds from the UK Government hanging by a thread, Oxfam announced on Friday the creation of an independent commission to end with the problems of sexual harassment that have been rampant both in the delegations of the entity and in the conflict zones where it carries out humanitarian work. The unfortunate comments, the touching without permission and, of course, the sexual abuse and hiring of prostitutes with money of the organization are over, or they will try.
The oeneg project consists of an organ, formed by women experts in women's rights who will work remotely from Oxfam, who will have access to the entity's records and to its employees, whom they interview to identify the abuses. The organization will also triple the financing of protection programs -which will exceed 800,000 euros- and double the number of people dedicated to these tasks, increasing investment in training on gender issues. What happened in Haiti is a stain that shamed us for years, and with all reason, said Winnie Byanyima, executive director of Oxfam International. I implore forgiveness, with all my heart, he added.
But while the number one of the oeneg ducked its head to ensure the organization's reputation was restored, another front stirred Oxfam's ethical foundations. Several British newspapers revealed on Friday that one of those involved in the case of sexual abuse and hiring prostitutes in Haiti was later booked by the organization in Ethiopia. Oxfam says the decision to employ this worker again was a serious mistake. It should never have happened, the organization reiterated.
Oxfam also communicates that you are investigating accusations of sexual abuse that could have occurred in the Philippines in 2013. I can not know how many [cases there are] because we must investigate, said Winnie Byanyima, who did not want to miss the opportunity to remember that most of the 10,000 employees of the oeneg around the world are people of value.
In parallel, the Spanish subsidiary responded Friday to the harsh accusations that the Finance Minister, Cristbal Montoro, made a day before, in which he hinted that it would be good to reconsider the aid that the Government allocates to the entity. Oxfam assured that it is effective with the regulations regarding compliance with standards as well as with prevention and control, so it should continue to receive public funds in Spain. With the public aid without touching, the certain thing is that the human capital that is losing the entity is notorious. Also familiar faces that collaborate. The last one who has left as an ambassador has been Miguel Bos.
To comment, it is necessary to be registered in lavozdeasturias.eslavozdegalicia.es
If you are a subscriber of La Voz de Galicia with your registration, access to multiple advantages associated with your Premium Registry.

Will an independent commission be necessary?
Seen the role of collaborators with so little embarrassment, and at international levels it is not surprising that this NGO disappears from the map, forever!

In accordance with the Privacy Policy, below we provide you with a list of the activities or sectors in respect of which you may receive commercial communications -including by electronic means of communication- if you do not state otherwise. In case you do not want to receive information about products, activities, services and actions of any of the following activities or sectors, check the corresponding box.
I do not want La Voz de Galicia to send me information about products, activities, services and actions of: I do not want La Voz de Asturias to send me information about products, activities, services and actions of: