An airplane of the Iranian airline Aseman has crashed today in Iran, when it covered the domestic route between the capital, Tehran, and the city of Yasuy, in the southeast of the country. Local media have reported that its 66 passengers have died, but then the public relations department of Aseman has reported that it has not been able to confirm, because bad weather has prevented access to the site of the incident.
The spokesman for the Iranian airline Aseman, which operated the injured ATR-72, Mohamad Taqí Tabatabaí, told Efe that the company's personnel has not yet been able to reach the accident zone.
Tabatabaí said he still can not confirm if the 66 people who were traveling on the ATR-72 plane have died, but that is the information that the inhabitants of the area have given them.
Earlier, official Iranian media, citing airline officials, reported that all people on board had died.
"The place is mountainous and difficult to access," said the spokesman, who pointed to the adverse weather conditions as the cause of the accident.
The plane, about twenty years old, took off from Tehran at 8.00 local time (4.30 GMT) bound for the city of Yasuy (southwest), and crashed in the Zagros mountain range near the town of Samirom, in the south of the central province of Isfahan.
A helicopter sent to the scene of the accident could not land because of rain, fog and wind.
Iranian Emergency Services spokesman Mojtaba Khaledi told state television that relief teams are approaching by land "but have not yet sighted" the wreckage of the plane.
It is believed that the device crashed near the top of the mountain, and rescue groups are about two hours away from that point.
A score of teams from three provinces have been sent to the area, announced the director of rescue operations of the Iranian Red Crescent, Morteza Salimí.
The bad weather has forced to cancel several domestic flights in Iran in the last 24 hours.
The Iranian air fleet is obsolete due to years of international sanctions, which ended with the signing of the nuclear agreement between Iran and six major powers in July 2015.
Since then, Iranian airlines have signed several agreements to purchase hundreds of aircraft with the manufacturers Airbus, Boeing and ATR in order to renew their fleet.
The last plane crash in Iran took place in August 2014 in Tehran, in which 40 people died. Three years earlier, another commercial plane crashed during a snowstorm in northern Iran, killing 77 people.
Do you want abc.es to keep you informed at all times?